Add an "Enforcing and Automatically Tagging AWS Resources" blog (#2844)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/enforcing-and-automatically-tagging-aws-resources/index.md

---
date: "2020-04-03"
title: "Enforcing and Automatically Tagging AWS Resources"
authors: ["joe-duffy"]
tags: ["AWS", "policy-as-code"]

> meta_desc: "Tagging resources is an AWS best practice. In this post, learn how to enforce, and easy wasys to automate, tagging your infrastructure reliably."

Author: ```suggestion
meta_desc: "Tagging resources is an AWS best practice. In this post, learn how to enforce and automate tagging your infrastructure easily and reliably."
```

## Why Tag Your Resources?

A tag is simply a key/value label that you can apply to your AWS infrastructure resources. This enables you to manage, search for, and filter resources. There aren't any predefined tags &mdash; you can use whatever makes sense for your scenario and business requirements.

[Amazon recommends a number of tagging strategies](https://aws.amazon.com/answers/account-management/aws-tagging-strategies/), including technical tags like name and environment, automation tags like dates and security requirements, business tags like owner and cost center, and security tags for compliance. Each of these enables you to apply policies.

Specifying a tag in your infrastructure as code is easy. Not all resources are taggable (although the most important ones are); to tag a resource, simply specify a map of key/values using the tags property. For example, this code declares an S3 Bucket that carries three tags that enable cost allocation reporting: `"user:Project"`, `"user:Stack"`, and `"user:Cost Center"`:

> {{< langchoose csharp >}}

Reviewer: I think the plan is to kill off the old `langchoose` as soon as some remaining usage in the generated API docs have been expunged, so probably best for new content to use the new chooser: https://github.com/pulumi/docs/tree/master/components#pulumi-chooser

Reviewer 2: Yes, thanks -- as soon as the docs have all been updated, I'll be removing these.

            })
        })
        return err
    }
}
```

```csharp
using Pulumi;
using Pulumi.Aws.S3;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Threading.Tasks;

class Program {
    static Task Main() {
        return Deployment.RunAsync(() => {
            // Create an S3 Bucket (with tags):
            var config = new Config();
            var bucket = new Bucket("my-bucket", new BucketArgs {
                Tags: new Dictionary<string, string> {
                    { "User:Project",     Deployment.Instance.ProjectName },
                    { "User:Stack",       Deployment.Instance.StackName },
                    { "User:Cost Center", config.Get("costCenter") },
                },
            });
        });
    }
}
```

In this example, we're using the project and stack names from the current project, and requiring an explicit cost center configured using `pulumi config set costCenter 11223344`. Of course, this is just for illustration purposes &mdash; we could easily used anything for these keys and values.

Suppose our team requires certain tags, though: How do we ensure we don't forget them?

## Enforcing Tagging Strategies

> Policy as Code is a way to enforce infrastructure policies, such as ensuring we're not opening databases to the internet, that we're leveraging strong encryption in all the right places, that we aren't violating cost policies, and so on. And it's a great way to ensure we're tagging everything.

Reviewer: One general question I have: When should we say "CrossGuard" vs. "Policy as Code"?

Author: CrossGuard is a codename, so generally, I've been preferring Policy as Code, especially when used as a peer to Infrastructure as Code, like in this post.

Author: Also, in this post, I'm trying to avoid it being very Pulumi-centric and seemingly more general-purpose, just to broaden its appeal (too much marketing speak and codenames seems like it would be at odds with this). That's why the name Pulumi doesn't show up much until the end.

Imagine we forgot to tag our S3 Bucket from earlier:

{{< langchoose csharp >}}

```javascript
// Oops -- no tags!
let bucket = new aws.s3.Bucket("my-bucket");
```

```typescript
// Oops -- no tags!
const bucket = new aws.s3.Bucket("my-bucket");
```

```python
# Oops -- no tags!
bucket = aws.s3.Bucket('my-bucket')
```

```go
// Oops -- no tags!
_, err := s3.NewBucket(ctx, "my-bucket", nil)
return err
```

```csharp
// Oops -- no tags!
var bucket = new Bucket("my-bucket");
```

By applying the policy defined below, deployments that are missing the required tags will fail:

![Tag Policy Failed](./tag-policy-failed.png)

This approach not only ensures we don't forget, but if you're an infrastructure or security engineer, you can now apply this across your team to make sure your team doesn't forget either.

### Defining our Tags Enforcer Policy

This policy is ultimately defined as a simple policy pack as follows:

<!--
    NOTE: we repeat for languages that aren't TypeScript, because otherwise they'd be
    hidden based on the above language chooser selection. We are close to being able to
    have a Python example, however it doesn't yet support configuration.

> -->

Reviewer: @cnunciato, the new chooser could be used here, which would avoid having to do this, right? The new chooser could be used to specify just JS and TS, and to not hide when other choosers on the page select other languages like Python or Go.

Reviewer: @joeduffy, Christian has a great writeup here: https://github.com/pulumi/docs/tree/master/components#pulumi-chooser

Reviewer: Untested, but I think you can structure this as follows, using the "local" mode

````markdown
{{< chooser language "javascript,typescript" local >}}

{{% choosable language javascript %}}

```javascript
// the javascript here
```

{{% /choosable %}}
{{% choosable language typescript %}}

```typescript
// the javascript here
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}
````

Author: _Nice_!! I was actually going to ask you if there was a better way to do this 😄

Reviewer 2: Yep, it should work exactly like this -- just note that you can't mix `langchoose` and `chooser` shortcodes on the same page, because the existing chooser.js code will interfere by `$.hide()`ing some code blocks. So if you use a `chooser` for one example, you'll need to use `chooser`s for all of them. But other than that, it should do what you expect!

        // Create a bunch of AWS resources -- with auto-tags!

        var bucket = new Bucket("my-bucket");

        var grp = new SecurityGroup("web-secgrp", new SecurityGroupArgs {
            Ingress = {
                new SecurityGroupIngressArgs {
                    Protocol = "tcp", FromPort = 80, toPort = 80, CidrBlocks = {"0.0.0.0/0"},
                },
            }
        });

        var srv = new Instance("web-server-www", new InstanceArgs {
            InstanceType = "t2.micro",
            Ami = "ami-0c55b159cbfafe1f0",
            VpcsecurityGroupIds = { grp.Id },
        });
    }
}
```

Notice that we didn't specify any tags by hand for the resource definitions and yet if we run a `pulumi preview --diff`, we will see that the correct tags are actually applied automatically, thanks to the global stack transformation:

![Policy Pack Page](./pac-autotag.png)

And running an ordinary update will now pass:

![Tag Policy Succeeded (Many Resources)](./tag-policy-succeed-many.png)

Try adding some resources of your own &mdash; VPCs, EC2 instances, security groups, EKS clusters, anything &mdash; and it will automatically get tagged with these same cost center tags.

> ## In Conslusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## In Conclusion
```

---
date: "2020-04-03"
title: "Enforcing and Automatically Tagging AWS Resources"
authors: ["joe-duffy"]
tags: ["AWS", "policy-as-code"]
meta_desc: "Tagging resources is an AWS best practice. In this post, learn how to enforce, and easy wasys to automate, tagging your infrastructure reliably."
meta_image: "pac-tags-meta.png"
---

AWS publishes best practices for how to tag your resources for cost tracking, automation, and organization. But how do you enforce that you're doing it correctly across all of your projects? And is it really necessary to manually track down all those places where you missed a tag and manually patch things up? In this article, we'll see how to use Policy as Code to enforce your team's tagging strategies in addition to some powerful Infrastructure as Code techniques to automate applying your tags in a consistent way across all of your projects and resources.

## Why Tag Your Resources?

> A tag is simply a key/value label that you can apply to your AWS infrastructure resources. This enables you to manage, search for, and filter resources. There aren't any predefined tags &mdash; you can use whatever makes sense for your scenario and business requirements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A tag is simply a key/value label that you can apply to your AWS infrastructure resources. It enables you to manage, search for, and filter resources. There aren't any predefined tags &mdash; you can use whatever makes sense for your scenario and business requirements.
```

Author: ```suggestion
A tag is simply a key/value label that you can apply to your AWS infrastructure resources. Tags enable you to manage, search for, and filter resources. There aren't any predefined tags &mdash; you can use whatever makes sense for your scenario and business requirements.
```

> [Amazon recommends a number of tagging strategies](https://aws.amazon.com/answers/account-management/aws-tagging-strategies/), including technical tags like name and environment, automation tags like dates and security requirements, business tags like owner and cost center, and security tags for compliance. Each of these enables you to apply policies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Amazon recommends many tagging strategies](https://aws.amazon.com/answers/account-management/aws-tagging-strategies/), including technical tags like name and environment, automation tags like dates and security requirements, business tags like owner and cost center, and security tags for compliance. Each of these enables you to apply policies.
```

> Specifying a tag in your infrastructure as code is easy. Not all resources are taggable (although the most important ones are); to tag a resource, simply specify a map of key/values using the `tags` property. For example, this code declares an S3 Bucket that carries three tags that enable cost allocation reporting: `"user:Project"`, `"user:Stack"`, and `"user:Cost Center"`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Specifying a tag in your Infrastructure as Code is easy. Not all resources are taggable (although the most important ones are); to tag a resource, specify a map of key/values using the `tags` property. For example, this code declares an S3 Bucket that carries three tags that enable cost allocation reporting: `"user:Project"`, `"user:Stack"`, and `"user:Cost Center"`:
```

)

func main() {
    pulumi.Run(func(ctx *pulumi.Context) error {
        // Create an S3 Bucket (with tags):
        _, err := s3.NewBucket(ctx, "my-bucket", &s3.BucketArgs{
            Tags: pulumi.Map({
                "User:Project": pulumi.String(ctx.Project()),
                "User:Stack": pulumi.String(ctx.Stack()),
                "User:Cost Center": pulumi.String(config.Require(ctx, "costCenter")),
            })
        })
        return err
    }
}
```

```csharp
using Pulumi;
using Pulumi.Aws.S3;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Threading.Tasks;

class Program {
    static Task Main() {
        return Deployment.RunAsync(() => {
            // Create an S3 Bucket (with tags):
            var config = new Config();
            var bucket = new Bucket("my-bucket", new BucketArgs {
                Tags: new Dictionary<string, string> {
                    { "User:Project",     Deployment.Instance.ProjectName },
                    { "User:Stack",       Deployment.Instance.StackName },
                    { "User:Cost Center", config.Get("costCenter") },
                },
            });
        });
    }
}
```

> In this example, we're using the project and stack names from the current project, and requiring an explicit cost center configured using `pulumi config set costCenter 11223344`. Of course, this is just for illustration purposes &mdash; we could easily used anything for these keys and values.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this example, we're using the project and stack names from the current project, and requiring an explicit cost center configured using `pulumi config set costCenter 11223344`. Of course, this is just for illustration purposes &mdash; we could easily use anything for these keys and values.
```

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, we're using the project and stack names from the current project, and requiring an explicit cost center configured using `pulumi config set costCenter 11223344`. Of course, this is just for illustration purposes &mdash; we can easily use anything for these keys and values.
```

    requiredTags?: string[];
}
```

```csharp
import * as policy from "@pulumi/policy";
import { isTaggable } from "../lib/taggable";

new policy.PolicyPack("aws-tags-policies", {
    policies: [{
        name: "check-required-tags",
        description: "Ensure required tags are present on all AWS resources.",
        configSchema: {
            properties: {
                requiredTags: {
                    type: "array",
                    items: { type: "string" },
                },
            },
        },
        validateResource: (args, reportViolation) => {
            const config = args.getConfig<AwsTagsPolicyConfig>();
            const requiredTags = config.requiredTags;
            if (requiredTags && isTaggable(args.type)) {
                const ts = args.props[tags];
                for (const rt of requiredTags) {
                    if (!ts || !ts[rt]) {
                        reportViolation(
                            `Taggable resource '${args.urn}' is missing required tag '${rt}'`);
                    }
                }
            }
        },
    }],
});

interface AwsTagsPolicyConfig {
    requiredTags?: string[];
}
```

> This project defines a _policy pack_ containing a set of _policy rules_, in this case, just one. That rule takes in a configurable set of tags to ensure exist on every taggable AWS resource. If a tag is missing, that is reported as a violation, and the deployment fails.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This project defines a _policy pack_ containing a set of _policy rules_, in this case, just one. That rule takes in a configurable set of tags to ensure they exist on every taggable AWS resource. If a tag is missing, it is reported as a violation, and the deployment fails.
```

Author: ```suggestion
This project defines a _policy pack_ containing a set of _policy rules_, in this case, just one. That rule takes in a configurable set of tags to ensure they exist on every taggable AWS resource. If a tag is missing, a violation is reported and the deployment fails.
```

> > This leverages a library that helps to identify taggable AWS resources (see this gist for the full details). Although this policy is written in TypeScript, it can be applied to stacks written in any language.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> This leverages a library that helps to identify taggable AWS resources (see this [gist](LINK MISSING?) for the full details). Although this policy is written in TypeScript, it can be applied to stacks written in any language.
```

Author: For sure, I'll be publishing the gist and linking to it before the post goes live.

At this point, we can apply our policy pack to our infrastructure project in two ways: at the CLI or in the SaaS web console.

### Applying Tags Enforcement in the CLI

> This policy pack is configurable so that you can enforce whatever tags you want to use without needing to change the pack's code. This makes it more reusable. For the CLI scenario, we will create a `policy-config.json` file that specifies those same three required tags shown above:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This policy pack is configurable so that you can enforce any tags you want to use without needing to change the pack's code, making it reusable. For the CLI scenario, we will create a `policy-config.json` file that specifies the same three required tags shown above:
```

Author: ```suggestion
This policy pack is configurable so that you can enforce arbitrary tags without needing to change the pack's code, making it reusable. For the CLI scenario, we will create a `policy-config.json` file that specifies the same three required tags shown above:
```

```json
{
    "all": "mandatory",
    "check-required-tags": {
        "requiredTags": [
            "user:Project",
            "user:Stack",
            "user:Cost Center"
        ]
    }
}
```

Next, we can manually specify that our policy pack is applied using the CLI's `--policy-pack` flag, along with `--policy-pack-config` to point at our configuration file:

```bash
$ pulumi up \
    --policy-pack=./policy \
    --policy-pack-config=./policy-config.json
```

### Applying Tags Enforcement in the SaaS Console

> It's nice to be able to use the CLI for this &mdash; and all of that is available in open source and no matter whether you're using the SaaS or not. However, it requires manually distributing policy packs and remembering to pass `--policy-pack` with the right configuration for every update.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's nice to be able to use the CLI for this &mdash; and all of that is available in open source, and no matter whether you're using the SaaS or not. However, it requires manually distributing policy packs and remembering to pass `--policy-pack` with the right configuration for every update.
```

Author: ```suggestion
It's nice to be able to use the CLI for this &mdash; and all of that is available in open source, no matter whether you're using the SaaS or not. However, it requires manually distributing policy packs and remembering to pass `--policy-pack` with the right configuration for every update.
```

The Pulumi Enterprise SaaS console lets you manage policy packs and apply them to your organization's stacks in a central way &mdash; and then every update that the pack is applied to automatically runs the policy checks. Let's give it a try.

First, let's publish the pack:

```bash
$ pulumi policy publish
Obtaining policy metadata from policy plugin
Compressing policy pack
Uploading Policy Pack to Pulumi service
Publishing "aws-tags-policies" - version 0.0.1 to "acmepolicy"

Permalink: https://app.pulumi.com/acmepolicy/policypacks/aws-tags-policies/0.0.1
```

This stores the policy pack in the Pulumi SaaS:

![Policy Pack Page](./pac-pack.png)

> From there, we can enable it in the UI. First, we will go to our organization's "POLICIES" tab:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From there, we can enable it in the UI. First, we go to our organization's "POLICIES" tab:
```

![Organization Policies Page](./pac-policies.png)

> Every organization gets a default policy group. That's what we'll use here, however, for sophisticated scenarios, you may want multiple policy groups (for instance, to enforce different tags in your production environments than your development ones).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Every organization gets a default policy group, and that's what we'll use here. However, for sophisticated scenarios, you may want multiple policy groups (for instance, to enforce different tags for your production environments than your development ones).
```

Let's "ADD" the new pack. This pops a dialog we can use to select the pack, its version, and our desired Enforcement Level (we'll pick "mandatory"):

![Enable Policy Pack](./pac-enable-pack.png)

Finally, further down in the dialog, we can enter the tags we'd like to enforce:

![Configure Policy Pack](./pac-configure-pack.png)

Now that it is configured, all subsequent updates across the organization will run policy checks.

## Automatically Applying Tags

In all cases, after manually fixing our bucket, and adding the correct tags, the policy will pass:

![Tag Policy Succeeded](./tag-policy-succeed.png)

> This is great &mdash; we can now rest assured that all taggable AWS resources will be tagged before we actually provision them. But it sure is tedious to need to remember to add these tags to every resource and then get policy violations errors anytime we forget. One of the advantages of using Infrastructure as Code is that we can automate injection of these tags.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is great &mdash; we can now rest assured that all taggable AWS resources will be tagged before we provision them. But it sure is tedious to add these tags to every resource and then get policy violations errors anytime we forget. One of the advantages of using Infrastructure as Code is that we can automate the injection of these tags.
```

using System.Reflection;

class MyStack : Stack {
    static Config config = new Config();

    public MyStack() : base(
            new StackOptions {
                ResourceTransformations = {
                    RegisterAutoTags(new Dictionary<string, string> {
                        { "User:Project", Deployment.Instance.ProjectName },
                        { "User:Stack", Deployment.Instance.StackName },
                        { "User:Cost Center", config.Require("costCenter") },
                    }),
                },
            }
        )
    {
        // Create a bunch of AWS resources -- with auto-tags!

        var bucket = new Bucket("my-bucket");

        var grp = new SecurityGroup("web-secgrp", new SecurityGroupArgs {
            Ingress = {
                new SecurityGroupIngressArgs {
                    Protocol = "tcp", FromPort = 80, toPort = 80, CidrBlocks = {"0.0.0.0/0"},
                },
            }
        });

        var srv = new Instance("web-server-www", new InstanceArgs {
            InstanceType = "t2.micro",
            Ami = "ami-0c55b159cbfafe1f0",
            VpcsecurityGroupIds = { grp.Id },
        });
    }
}
```

> Notice that we didn't specify any tags by hand for the resource definitions and yet if we run a `pulumi preview --diff`, we will see that the correct tags are actually applied automatically, thanks to the global stack transformation:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Notice that we didn't specify any tags by hand for the resource definitions and yet if we run a `pulumi preview --diff`, we see that the correct tags are applied automatically, thanks to the global stack transformation:
```

![Policy Pack Page](./pac-autotag.png)

> And running an ordinary update will now pass:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And running an ordinary update passes:
```

Author: ```suggestion
And running an ordinary update now passes:
```

![Tag Policy Succeeded (Many Resources)](./tag-policy-succeed-many.png)

Try adding some resources of your own &mdash; VPCs, EC2 instances, security groups, EKS clusters, anything &mdash; and it will automatically get tagged with these same cost center tags.

## In Conslusion

In this post, we've seen some of the ways to enforce and ensure AWS tagging best practices. This includes manually applying tags using Infrastructure as Code, enforcing that the desired tags are applied to the relevant resources using Policy as Code, and even using some advanced techniques enabled by having real languages at our fingertips to automatically tag resources to reduce tedious manual overheads and minimize the chance of human error.

> To get started with Pulumi's open source Infrastructure and Policy as Code tools, try the [AWS getting started guide]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/aws" >}}). See the gist here for the full policy pack and project code. Good luck making sure your team's resources are tagged early and often with less manual effort!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To get started with Pulumi's open-source Infrastructure and Policy as Code tools, try the [AWS getting started guide]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/aws" >}}). See the [gist](LINK) here for the full policy pack and project code. Good luck making sure your team's resources are tagged early and often with less manual effort!
```
